= recommendable

NOTE: This is a work in progress, and has not yet been fully pushed to RubyGems. Check back later!

Recommendable is a Rails Engine to add Like/Dislike functionality to your application. In addition, it uses redis to 

== Installation

To install Recommendable, add

  gem "recommendable"

To your Rails app's `Gemfile`. Then, from your shell:

  $ rails g recommendable:install (--user-class=User)

After running the installation generator, you should double check `config/initializers/recommendable.rb` for options on configuring Redis.

== Usage

In your Rails model that represents your application's user:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_recommended_to
    
    # ...
  end

Then, from any Rails model you wish your user to be able to like/dislike:

  class Movie < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_recommendable
    
    # ...
  end

=== Liking/Disliking

At this point, your user will be ready to like movies...

  >> user = User.create(:username => 'davidcelis')
  >> awesome_movie = Movie.create(:title => '2001: A Space Odyssey', :year => 1968)
  >> user.like(awesome_movie)
  => true
  >> another_movie = Movie.create(:title => 'Back to the Future', :year => 1985)
  >> user.like(another_movie)
  => true

... or dislike them:

  >> shitty_movie = Movie.create(:title => 'Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace', :year => 1999)
  >> user.dislike(shitty_movie)

Several helpful methods are available to your user now:

  >> user.likes?(awesome_movie)
  => true
  >> user.dislikes?(shitty_movie)
  => true
  >> user.dislikes?(another_movie)
  => false
  >> user.liked_objects
  => [#<Movie id: 1, name: '2001: A Space Odyssey', year: 1968>, #<Movie id: 2, name: 'Back to the Future', :year => 1985>]
  >> user.disliked_objects
  => [#<Movie id: 3, name: 'Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace', year: 1999>]

Liking a movie that has already been disliked (or vice versa) will simply destroy the old rating and create a new one. If you wish to manually remove an item from a user's likes or dislikes, you can:

  >> decent_movie = Movie.create(:title => 'Avatar', :year => 2009)
  >> user.like(decent_movie)
  => true
  >> user.liked_objects
  => [#<Movie id: 1, name: '2001: A Space Odyssey', year: 1968>, #<Movie id: 2, name: 'Back to the Future', :year => 1985>, #<Movie id: 4, name: 'Avatar', year: 2009>]
  >> user.unlike(decent_movie)
  => true
  >> user.liked_objects
  => [#<Movie id: 1, name: '2001: A Space Odyssey', year: 1968>, #<Movie id: 2, name: 'Back to the Future', :year => 1985>]

You can call `user.undislike(movie)` in the same way. So, as far as the Likes and Dislikes go, do you think that's enough? Because I didn't.

  >> friend = User.create(:username => 'joeblow')
  >> friend.like(awesome_movie)
  => true
  >> awesome_movie.liked_by
  => [#<User id: 1, username: 'davidcelis'>, #<User id: 2, username: 'joeblow'>]
  >> shitty_movie.disliked_by
  => [#<User id: 1, username: 'davidcelis'>]

=== Recommendations

I'll update this section soon.

== Contributing to recommendable
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 David Celis. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.
